Rise of Cyber Crime and its Effects


Cybercrime is the most discussed problem in the twenty-first century. The usage of cell phones and the internet is increasing dramatically over the world, which is generating questions about consumers’ security and privacy. Because of this, all users must understand cybercrime and security. Cybercrime is defined as organised criminal conduct carried out by attackers online. Cybercrime comes in numerous forms, such as fraud, computer viruses, cyberstalking, and others. Due to these, businesses and government organisations are spending more on maintaining and employing professionals in cybercrime.
7 Cyber security keywords: –
1- Artificial Intelligence
AI has been around for quite a while now and one of its most memorable advancements was the Go game between ‘AlphaGo’, a computer Go program developed by Google DeepMind, and the world champion Lee Se-dol. AlphaGo was able to use its collected data to achieve its goal. The so-called ‘weak AI’ used on AlphaGo is also applied to various fields within cyber security.
2. Ransomware
Over the past years, ransomware has been aiming at innumerable targets. However, its new method of attack now aims at specific targets, where companies, communities, and public institutions are at risk. Companies with strong financial powers are most likely to be their targets as the attackers will be rewarded huge sums of money for their success. Those providing Infra and Database storage, local government and healthcare organizations, are listed as the main targets of ransomware attacks.
3. Supply Chain Attack
A supply chain attack is a cyber-attack that affects the organization by targeting less-secure elements in the supply network. Supply Chain attacks were already on the list of the 7 Cybersecurity keywords last year, and still manage to maintain their place. Such attacks will continue to infiltrate the supply chain through third-party systems and services. Therefore, due to its weak security systems, those purchasing third-party vendor products and services must take extra caution.
4. Cloud
The interest in Cloud Security is on the rise. However, it is pointed out that Cloud computing’s largest vulnerability is the operator’s configuration error. More complex and flexible Cloud systems will eventually lead to a greater number of errors and reveal itself as a target for many cyber attackers.
5. Malicious emails
Receiving emails containing malware is not a new thing anymore. The Financial Security Institute warns us how malware email attacks are becoming more cunning and harder to block. Spear Phishing, a traditional method of attack that uses HWP and DOC documents, will not stop this year.
6. Internet of Things (IoT)
Building castles in the air was the perfect phrase to describe how IoT was perceived. However, IoT has now become a part of our lives. People can now watch YouTube on their refrigerators and gas valves can be closed by using Smartphone applications. Many are experiencing an easier lifestyle but are also suffering from many cyber threats.
7. Darkweb
Due to several incidents, Darkweb, which was only known to cyber attackers and security professionals, is now well-known to the public. For example, Warez and Webhard are the two programs in which Netizens in Korea can improve their networking skills but also leads them to be involved in distributing illegal programs and even in cybercrime.
There are millions and billions of users and websites in the vast community known as cyberspace. People utilise it for a variety of activities including e-commerce, transactions, shopping, movies, music, and video games. Anyone can simply access anything online in the current technological era owing to an accessible internet connection. As a result, crime in general and cybercrime, in particular, have surged dramatically. Additionally, the faster internet connection has greatly boosted the rate of data circulation. All of these problems are responsible for why cyber security has grown to be a significant issue for society.
The government has created several cybercrime-related laws to curb the spread of crime and to protect people’s interests. These laws also provide a defence against cybercrime. Aside from that, the government has established cyber cells in police stations to combat cybercrime as quickly as possible.
Cybercrime is an attack that can be harmful to both an individual and a business. There have been several instances where a Cyber Attack led to a data leak that caused a significant loss for a business or a person. These cyber-attacks could have negative effects on the country and the business. The countless instances of cyberattacks that have taken place in India and other nations have necessitated increased security measures. There are four main categories of cybercrime, according to a popular definition—hacking, money, privacy, and cyber-terrorism.
Cybercrime is a type of crime in which illegal activities are carried out online or using computers. Cybercrime comes in a variety of forms which involves harassing online users. Cybercrime is the most serious and rapidly expanding type of crime in this day and age. Any person’s life may be negatively impacted for a very long time by becoming a cyber victim. Cybercrimes have a wide range of repercussions on financial and investment activity in digital organisations.
One typical tactic used by criminals is to lure online users in by creating attractive websites and sending phoney emails purporting to be from banks or other organisations and asking for personal information. It makes it easier for criminals to access a person’s bank account and personal data. Due to viruses, mail fraud, account hacking, and software piracy, people have been victims of cybercrimes. They also run into problems with unauthorised access mailing, threats from pornographic emails, and video transmission.
Types of Cyber Crime

Cyberstalking | It is the use of electronic communication to track down a person or to make repeated attempts to get in touch with them to foster personal interaction despite their blatant lack of interest. Anyone who monitors the internet, email, or any other form of electronic communication is guilty of stalking.
Phishing | It is a sort of fraud that includes collecting personal data from recipients of emails that seem to be coming from a reliable source, including Customer ID, IPIN, Credit/Debit Card number, Card expiration date, CVV number, etc.
Vishing | It is an attempt when criminals attempt to obtain personal information over the phone, such as Customer ID, Net Banking password, ATM PIN, OTP, Card expiration date, CVV, etc.
Smishing | It is a sort of fraud that employs text messages sent to mobile devices to entice victims into dialling a fake phone number, going to a fake website, or downloading harmful software.
Impersonation And Identity Theft | This includes the dishonest or fraudulent use of another person’s electronic signature, password, or other distinctive identification trait.
Virus, Worms, Trojan | A computer virus is a program designed to infiltrate your computer, corrupt your files and data, and spread itself. Worms are malicious software applications that repeatedly duplicate themselves on local drives, network shares, etc. A Trojan is a malicious program that mimics a legitimate application. Trojans offer unauthorised people and applications access to your computer through a backdoor entry, allowing them to steal sensitive data.

How to Prevent Cyber Crime

Back up every piece of information—data, systems, and considerations—to make it easier for businesses to recover from unforeseen events with the help of prior data.
Pick a firewall that offers protection from viruses, malware, and dishonest hackers.
Never divulge private information to a stranger since they might exploit it for fraud.
To avoid cybercrime, check your security settings—to determine if someone has logged into your computer, a cyber firewall analyses your network settings.
Antivirus software aids in identifying potential threats and malware before they infect a computer system. Never use software that has been cracked since it poses a serious risk of data loss or malware attack.
Keep your information protected when accessing untrusted websites—information can readily bypass the data through phishing websites.

Blackcoffer Insights 47: Vedant Chaudhari, R. C. Patel Institute of Technology Shirpur
